This is Koto Radio, episode 326 for September 21st, 2018.
Hi everyone, and welcome to Koto Radio, Jupiter Broadcasting's weekly talk show,
taking a pragmatic look at the art and the business of software development
and its related technologies. My name is Chris, we have no sponsors anymore,
so I'll bring in our host, that man established down in the bayou,
well at least in Florida, it's Mr. Dominic. Hello Mike!
Well good afternoon and welcome back from death, Mr. Vice President.
Thank you, although making me laugh actually hurts, so...
Whoops, this...
It's good to be back. Yeah, this is my first coder since I wound up in the hospital.
Quick version, had appendicitis, didn't realize it for three weeks,
thought I could just push through it like an idiot, stopped by the ER
after things started getting rough, they didn't catch it, they said I was clear
to fly down to Texas. I fly down to Texas to seal the deal on all the business arrangement stuff,
my appendix ruptures, I end up in the hospital for a week,
Wes fills in like a gentleman, and now I'm back for an excellent edition
of the Coder Radio Program, perhaps the most excellent edition of the Coder Radio Program.
You had some issues going on earlier this week too, so we couldn't do our Monday recording,
I apologize to everybody, but it's good to be back, Mr. Dominic.
I've been looking forward to it all week, I ordered three HomePods while we were gone,
no I'm kidding, I did not order any. Did you color coordinate, or is it like
two black, one white, we have to know. I would go all, I think I would go with
all one color if I was going to be a multi-HomePod home, but I'm just kidding,
no HomePods were ordered. Did get the new phone, I did,
because I'm on the upgrade program, so I could pay $55 a month, which includes the
higher storage tier, AppleCare Plus, and the phone, and I could do that for the X,
or I could just do that for the XS too, so I just, a little underwhelmed,
but I decided to pull the trigger and do the upgrade.
So it should have been here yesterday, but there was a UPS snafu.
So instead, I figured we'd just have a nice traditional show and just avoid talking about
the whole topic altogether, what do you say? Yeah, because there's really nothing to say.
There really isn't. Well, let's start with L-Feedback, which I like this one,
comes in from Wyatt of Vulkan, and he says, hey Chris and Mike, I thought about passing
this article along to you guys to talk about on the show, it's an interesting read,
especially if one is a 3D or graphics programmer. Even though I'm not either of those two,
I believe Vulkan is the future of 3D and graphics programming.
I think having a memory model, which is the link that he just introduced to us, is a big deal.
So the group behind Vulkan is called the Khronos Group, and they've recently announced,
I think it was September 13th, a memory model or a memory consistency model,
which for a programming language describes how threads in a parallel processing system
could access shared data and synchronize with each other while allowing compilers and the hardware
the freedom to reorder and optimize memory access. They do this by precisely specifying
where and how instructions and memory operations can be reordered, and what the order effect of
those memory operations can become, and if they can be visible or not to other threads as well.
So, you know, memory models, I think probably the audience is familiar with that. They're, I guess,
in the grand scheme of things, semi-new, but not really. But there really hasn't been anything like
this for GPUs and a graphics API. So that's the big story here, is on the 13th, Vulkan has become
the world's first graphics API to include a formal memory model for its associated programming
languages. They label it as a significant announcement, and I've been hearing from people
in the audience throughout the week that they think it's kind of a big deal. And so what they
think is kind of a big deal. And so Wyatt passes this along to us, and he asks us the question,
with Vulkan having universal support on Windows, Linux, and Android, and now with this introduction
of a memory model, is this the future? And where does that leave the Apple platforms? What do you
think? It's very odd now. I guess we could see a, and maybe there already is, I'll have to look,
a Vulkan to Metal translation layer or something. I'll look that up. But what do you think about
Vulkan in the future for a 3D graphics API? Is it going to be all Vulkan?
Well, I don't think it's going to be all anything, right? Vulkan is definitely,
it's definitely looking more and more impressive. The problem is,
you know, when we're thinking about graphics programming, we're probably in most cases going
to be thinking about game development. And you just, most people don't directly program to the
graphics API, right? They use something like Unity, or Cocos 2D, or I'm dating myself here,
Torque 2D, Torque 3D, or if you have money on Unreal Engine, that under the hood translates
into Vulkan Metal, or, you know, the OpenGL, or DirectX on Windows. I would prefer that you
be correct, that Vulkan be, because Vulkan is more, like, Metal is not an open standard. Metal
is a completely proprietary Apple thing. Same with DirectX.
Yeah, but I mean, who cares about DirectX anymore? Whoops. They're both impressive. I tend to think
that the trend of history is towards more open source and open platform is winning. I would
wager that Vulkan will definitely be substantial. My only hesitation on that is, Apple is weirdly
stubborn when it comes to adopting other people's standards. So, they could literally just, like,
not allow it on iOS. They're super stubborn until they just do it, like, with the Qi charging,
or using NFC for Apple Pay. Like, every now and then they just go, like, yeah, all right,
we'll just do the industry standard thing. Yeah, it's when their alternative proprietary
standard fails, they go to the open standard. So, yeah, no, I think Vulkan's awesome.
It does look like there's, and we've actually mentioned on the show before, but I just,
we don't talk about it enough, MoltenVK, which is a runtime that maps Vulkan to Apple's Metal
Graphics Framework for iOS and macOS. And it is available as a free open source project on GitHub.
So, you have MoltenVK, MoltenVK, and there's also MoltenGL, which is an implementation of OpenGL ES
2.0 API for the Metal Graphics Framework, which would probably be more predominant on iOS.
But that is actually kind of encouraging, because then that means you can still essentially use
Vulkan on the Apple platforms, and that might seal the deal for the Macs and the iOS devices.
Yeah, I mean, but isn't it just a translation layer?
It's not, yeah. They use the term runtime that maps the calls, is the term that they're using.
Right, so it's almost like a wine sort of situation, right? You're,
at the end of the day, you're actually calling the Metal APIs.
Right, the translation proxy or agent, whatever you want to call it is.
Jonathan writes in, he thinks he's found something rotten. He says, I'm a new developer,
I'm a new developer in, and they're trying me out as a contractor. You know, I think these are kind
of common. You start a job, the nine month, six month contract, maybe even a year, everything was
good until I got access to work on their Linux boxes. I got an Excel sheet of all the usernames
and password, and I felt sick when I got that. But I got really sick, yeah, I got really sick
when I saw the boxes that I'll be working on still had Linux kernel 2.6. It's a classic.
I went to my team lead and was told that if the client does not want to pay for upgrades,
then they do not get the upgrades. What is the best way for me to tell my team, my lead,
my boss or my department why and how bad of an idea this is?
Oh boy, Jonathan, you know, I feel like he's asking the wrong question
to tell you the truth. I think the question he should be asking is, should I care?
I know we all care. We care when things are not secure, when people are mismanaging technology,
when infrastructure is weak, we care. It goes against the hacker ethos. You're supposed to
take care of this stuff. You are a steward of this stuff. These machines are Jonathan's flock,
and his flock is sick and unprotected, and it bothers him quite a bit. The thing is, Jonathan,
is this is how it is in every single company you will ever work at for your entire life.
Yeah, it really, I mean, although this is pretty extreme. I definitely agree,
except there's one thing that's kind of stuck in my craw about it. He said he's a contractor.
If he was an employee, he wouldn't be liable. There is such a thing as malpractice for what
we all do here. That's why people spend money on errors and omissions insurance. In fact,
some companies actually just call it malpractice insurance. I would argue, and I'm not an attorney,
so I don't know where you're, because we're not regular engineers, but I definitely do think you
have a duty to raise an objection. If you get shut down, you get shut down. If they just say,
well, no, we don't care, then so be it. I don't know. This feels really bad.
It's a bad situation.
It depends on what the system is. If there is any kind of mission critical data or
confidential customer data or employee data, now there is real concern there.
Here's what I would advise Jonathan does is I would try to look at this in two ways. First
of all, like Mike said, it might be worth covering your own ass, and you can do that with notes.
Start taking notes. I don't care if you handwrite them. I don't care if you type them.
Start keeping notes of what you discover and who you've talked to about it and your thoughts at
the time about the risk. Date it. Make sure that's clear, that it's timestamped. That is one great
way to cover your own ass. Now here's the next thing I would do, though. I would come to them
with a solution and not a problem, because if we're talking a largish infrastructure at this
point, the task of bringing all of those systems up to date, fixing the incompatibilities that arise
from the changes, working with the vendors perhaps for whatever reason that might be slowing down the
progress of updates, educating the clients on why it's a good idea, selling it to them, because
they're going to have to be sold on the idea of spending money. And I've done that a lot.
Nobody likes to be told about maintenance costs, so you have to sell it in a way that talks about
keeping things secure, more stable, long-term, sustainable. You have to use phrases like that.
Not, hey, we got to go fix this thing on this box because it's what needs to be done.
It doesn't work as well. So come to the management and your team, or your department heads, whatever,
with a solution. Maybe a suggested plan of action, even if it's not complete. Come to them with
something that solves the problem. Don't bring a big problem to them. You'll probably get more
traction with that. You combine that with keeping good notes to cover your arse, recommending best
practices in those notes, and also try to create a dialogue where perhaps you can triage this thing
or something. Think about what is going to be most comfortable for your organization, and then come
to them with that solution. That's probably the best you can do, Jonathan.
Yeah. I mean, one line of argument that has helped me in similar situations is an analogy to
physical health, right? Like, try to get them to understand that-
It's a hygiene issue.
Hygiene. It's hygiene. What you're suggesting is that they brush their teeth, floss, and don't eat
candy all day. And if that is annoying, whatever, but the cost of losing your teeth, it could be
anything, right? It could be being a fat guy like me and taking a heart attack, right? Just whatever.
Tell them that there's these little costs that have to happen all the time are just like dental
or physical maintenance, or even maintenance on a car, if you prefer not to mention health.
It's a big problem because it's going to be software patches, it's going to be vendor software
that has to get updated, and it's going to be really solving the username and password
management solution. Probably passwords haven't been rotated in a long time for some accounts.
They're in a spreadsheet, which I'm sure isn't like Google Drive or SharePoint somewhere.
Or just getting emailed around the office so a copy sits in each person's inbox.
Oh, it's terrifying.
It's like a bunch of emoji replies.
Right. A bunch of thumbs up and flames. All right. So this isn't really an email from the audience,
but this is follow up from a discussion we had in the episode after it was announced that Microsoft
had acquired GitHub. And I think it was either myself, probably Mike, somebody said, hey,
you know what's going to happen here. One of us said, this is going to get turned into a massive
hiring apparatus with all of the data of contributions and the projects people work
on in their social connections. Microsoft's going to use this to do basically a jobs board.
Well, turns out we nailed that prediction. I mean, we called that day up. We got a couple
of bills for that one. So GitHub's VP of worldwide sales, Paul St. John, was at an event and he was
talking about what he's going to be talking about at the next event he's going to be at.
And he was coy about the details, but his comments came after discussion about the role GitHub,
having been acquired by Microsoft, plays in connecting open source developers
with prospective employers. In that context, he says businesses use open source libraries and
then they make applications from them and then they need someone to work on them. He goes on to
say they will email people at GitHub and they will come to GitHub itself and say, quote,
we need somebody to come and work on this application built off this open source library.
Can you find anybody in the community that will come work on it? It happens all the time, he says.
That was his response to will GitHub be a hiring platform.
Recruiters are coming.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, Microsoft is going to be the new recruiter. They'll be looking at
what expertise you have and what other projects you have. And then when employers come,
they'll sell that data to employers.
And so I'm going to make a recommendation right now. Go into your GitHub profile
and don't show your email address. Make sure your email is hidden.
Is this I mean, is this necessarily bad? Maybe this is the way to do it.
It's totally bad. It's going to be terrible.
Because it because it means people start gaming GitHub or like, what's your concern? Because
to me, it seems like maybe it would be matching the right candidates with the right business.
My concern is your see, ideally, if it was like, you know, you know, ACME company needs to hire a
a Django developer.
Yeah, I mean, here's an example. Yeah. His example, let's say they build some big
some big applications dependent on that framework.
That's like not what's going to happen.
No.
Right. So, you know, he says it happens all the time.
No, he's a VP.
Hey, now, I'm no offense to present company. But, you know, I'm just thinking of a few other
VPs in the world, you know, wasn't Nixon a VP at one point?
Oh, man. Is this a Pence joke? Is this a long Pence joke? Is that we're going here?
You know, sometimes I think Mike Pence is waiting for me to get fired and take my job.
I'm just always around. No.
Jackass.
Oh, Barack. I miss you. Although I really don't.
Oh, he'll be back.
Okay. Oh, just like Dracula.
So when Stack Overflow first added their developer profile thing that they've now called
careers of Stack Overflow, they did this. This is we're going back. We're going back in time.
Okay.
They allowed you to put contact information on there. And what immediately happened was
one brave Borg like recruiter found it and the spam did not stop. It's not going to be
Linux Academy is looking to hire somebody on GitHub. Of course, that may be sometimes be a thing
or that, you know, Acme company is looking to hire somebody. It's going to be predominantly
recruiters and it's going to be just a nightmare. Like I can, I,
I could actually see what you're saying. Definitely. The companies will outsource it to
recruiters.
Well, that's what they already do.
Yeah, exactly. Of course. Of course.
Like some recruiters are great. Don't get me wrong. I'm not like, you know, I don't like
hate recruiters, but there's like also those weird ones who call you from like across the world that
are like super unethical and they'll just keep calling and calling and calling and calling.
Yeah, that's not something. And also I kind of don't like it as someone who employs developers
because, so now GitHub who, I mean, I'm using GitLab now, but we have some open source on GitHub
is going to advertise what talents my people have to people who want to poach them.
Like one of my issues is hiring people and like having them not get poached.
Yes.
Since I've been down here, it's poaching has been an actual real problem.
I didn't realize until recently having a few conversations with a couple of different folks,
how bad it's gotten. Like the person is supposed to show up for their first day of work. Oh, nope,
they got a better offer because they're going to get a better job.
They're supposed to show up for their first day of work. Oh, nope, they got a better offer
because they can leverage the offers against each other.
That's exactly what happens.
You know, I mean, it's good for the employee, right? They're getting the best situation possible.
It's just, we're looking at it from an owner standpoint, right? So that's our bias.
Well, and like, it's really bad for small businesses because you don't, you know,
have, you just don't have the perks, right? You don't have that, you know, for instance,
Amazon is down here and they poach people all the time. Amazon offers people more money than
actually exists in the state of Florida.
Yeah. I've heard a couple of stories of Microsoft doing the same thing recently.
Yeah. And they're down here too. So it's kind of like, okay, so basically take out all the top
tier developers that graduate a college every year, can't hire them. And you're left with,
you really end up getting creative doing things like going to events, bootcamps. But, you know,
I've had recruiters and the tangent, but I just told Chris, I want you to understand now that
you're a big corporate guy, you should understand recruiters are shameless.
Yeah.
I've had them call my office when we're all on site trying to poach someone.
Wow. Yeah. You know, I have, I remember when I first started, when I was in IT still and I
started getting in recruiter calls at first, I felt like it was an ego boost. Like,
I'm so great. I've shown up on somebody's radar. And then that quickly fades away to frustration
because it really is just, it's a bombardment. And you're right. You're right. Oh man. I was all,
I was all fired up about this. Like the right candidates will be connected with the right
companies, but you're right. It's just going to be a recruiting fuel.
To be fair to Microsoft and GitHub, they could just like say, you know, recruiters,
right? They could verify, but now we're talking about work and recruit. Yeah. And their money's
green too. So. Exactly. Yeah. Plus the gift, the companies are legitimately hiring those
recruiters to do the work on the behalf of the companies. That's, you know, that checks out.
That's yeah. Recruiters exist for a reason, right? Like I can't say I've never used one. So.
Well, you have a little bit of news. Why don't we make our own hoopla? I think since the last
time you talked, you and I talked at least, you released a new product that runs on
modern versions of windows and Linux. And it's not a bot. In fact, it's not even probably what
people guess. It's something for essentially, unless I'm wrong, the, what's the industry
called? Not the aerospace industry, but the it's, it's, it's for people flying military aviation.
Yeah. Okay. There you go. Military aviation. It's a radar display platform, including tactical
displays. And I don't even know what this word means. R W R like you've gone deep warning.
Radar. Wow, man. You've gone deep. Real deep. So it's, it's, it's pronounced. How do you graph
on? How do you pronounce it? Griffin Griffin. Oh, awesome. Griffin radar.com. If people want to
learn more about it. Uh, well that's a huge congratulations. And thank you. Yeah. It's a,
this is why you've been doing some of the travel recently. Yeah. That's why I've been doing some
of the travel. That's why I've been so, so this, so this links to something else, by the way,
if you want to check it out, go to Griffin radar.com. Um, and of course I, uh, you know,
all my sites are pretty. Yeah. You do always have great sites. This is the, and this is something
else we should cover. This was the project that I wanted to do in cute. Right. That was originally
written in cute and then had to be brought over to a.net. Right. Um, yeah. So in fact, there's
been some developments on that cause I don't know if you saw cute actually replied to me on Twitter.
You know, you mentioned, I didn't see the thread though. I didn't get a chance to see it. How did
that go? What was their response? Uh, the response was like a, a, a response that didn't quite answer
the question. So there is some disagreement on what is considered embedded. That's where we are
right now. Oh, really? And the ironic thing is the, the response that they tweeted to me
contradicts the conversation I had with their rep. So it is possible. In fact, I would, I tried to
encourage them to say a little, you know, cause I guess they, they heard the show, which sorry,
you know, I, I try to invited the rep on. I said, you know, this is very confusing. I've talked to
three different people from your company and I've gotten two very different answers. I said, and,
you know, now we have this much on Twitter, which, which I think is correct, but the official
proposal I got from you was the exact opposite. And the question being, is a windows or Linux tablet
that's running standards, windows or Linux, right? So let's just say Debian,
is that considered if it's mounted in a, in a either airplane or anything like that,
is that considered embedded? I thought not, but as we went through that process, the rep said,
yeah, we consider that embedded. So the, so the question that really is at the core of this is
what defines an embedded device? Is it an embedded OS or is it how it's installed?
That was my argument. It would be that it, it would be the op, it would be, you know, running
a headless Linux machine. I would say sure embedded.
I mean, just for the sake of argument, what if they had an HP tower in the airplane that fed
to an LCD monitor that was secured in the cockpit with like a mounting system that wouldn't, that
would clearly not be embedded because it would be, it'd be a DVI cord running down to, or a
DisplayPort cord running down to a HP PC tower running windows 10 professional. And that would
clearly not be embedded, but because now they've been able to fit all of that same stuff in
something like a surface that makes it an embedded device. I don't think I agree with that. It's,
and it's x86 windows in this case, it's standard, it's standards windows 10 or standard Debian,
right? We could, yeah, I'm calling shenanigans on that. Yeah. Well, and it's funny because the,
the public reply on Twitter was basically in agreement with me, but also like, you know,
somewhat annoyed that I guess they don't, you don't like it. Well, they don't like it when
you talk about it publicly, you know, they don't like that too much. It seems like what happened
is like a sales rep made a mistake, but because we're so small, didn't want to take a lot of time
to escalate the issue. And I got annoyed. So, so yeah, but it is still to this day that I have
still not gotten a straight answer on if you just have a tablet running a non embedded operating
system. So straight windows, straight Linux, is that considered embedded or not? And it's still
still unclear. Geez, that is these cute people come on the show. It's really, even if the answer
is yes, we consider it embedded, better to have it out there that, you know, this is our policy.
But hey, I would, I would like to know what the audience thinks. I wonder if they could make the
case for, for that, to say it's embedded. And the other, the other funny thing is technically,
again, not a lawyer, the LGPL doesn't care, right? If you can dynamically link the libraries,
you should be fine as far as the LGPL is concerned. It's interesting that they even have
this distinction. Well, it's because maybe folks like you don't want to link, right?
No, I was willing to link. I was a dynamically link. Oh, you were. Okay. I misunderstood. Oh,
okay. So first I wanted to pay commercial. Yeah. And then I briefly thought about using the LGPL,
but the conversation, this is where the conversation got weird. Like, well, if it's
embedded, you can't, which makes no sense. So even with that rather major road bump that you've hit,
that, you know, you're still churning over in your head, you were still able to hit the ship date.
And I assume you were able to do the demos. How, how stressful was that? And how did you actually
manage to pull that off? So the wonderful thing about Visual Studio is it basically writes the
code for you. It was, yeah, it was pretty stressful. We ended up having to basically
double up resources on the project and just, just go, go, go to get it out the door.
There's a, there's a little secret in there for the Linux version called Avalonia. Yeah. But oh,
yeah. Oh yeah. Which the Mad Botter is now actually sponsoring. So, oh yeah, I saw that too.
All right. So how do I get it for a good news slash Linux? Do I just, is there any way for
me to contact you? Is that how I get it? Yeah. It's a, it's a callous situation. Oh, you dirty
dog. You dirty dog. Yeah. So how, okay. Okay. But I guess the elephant in the room really is
how the hell did you narrow in on this particular market on, as they would say, on this vertical?
How did you go there? Because Mad Botter, right, is working on a productivity bot.
And then of course I've seen that idea take off like crazy. And so you're looking at other places
where perhaps you could niche down on that vertical, as they say. And I'm just wondering
how the hell a military aerospace is where you landed. That's, that's a, that's a big leap.
With you being missing for so long, I was, I was seriously thinking we needed some sort of rescue
operation. No. So actually a lot of the consulting work isn't that vertical already that we've been
doing for some time. Oh. So there was just an opportunity to work with a partner and yeah,
it was, went ahead and I see you already had feelers in that area. So it was just sort of a natural slip
right in. Nice. Slip it right in. Nice, dude. Well, congratulations on shipping. Yeah. Like you said,
it's a Griffin radar, right? Did I say that right? Griffin radar.com. Yep. Griffin radar.com. Nice.
Well, congratulations. That's a big deal. I'm going to, I'll talk, you know, if people are
interested, I thought I figured I'd talk a little bit about, you know, what's going on in the
industry. And then I'll talk a little bit about, uh, my business thing that's pretty huge for me
is the transition from being an independent owner of Jupiter broadcasting and really being,
having to be extremely scrappy and fight it out in the streets with, uh, other podcasts that are,
you know, advertisers supported and trying to work, you know, try to encourage people to do
our Patreon and just really just pulling it every string we can to stay alive. And now we've made
formerly a part of Linux Academy and, um, a huge part of Linux Academy's core values is
the community because they themselves as Linux users recognize that if you're going to build
a large, successful company that makes revenue off of Linux, then it's in your best interest
when you get to a certain size to be an active participant in that community, reinvesting back
in the very community that's made you successful. And so that's always been a big part of what Linux
Academy has been about, but it's sort of been everyone's job, which only works at a certain
scale when everybody is really busy. You know, it's, it's easy to say community is important.
So, uh, at some point they made the, they did make the determination that we need to have an
actual community department and we need to have a VP of community. And, uh, that is the role that I
have taken on. And the podcasts are part of that giving back to the community. It's their contribution.
That's why they removed the ads from the podcasts is they want them to be something free that goes
back to the community that gets people excited about Linux and open source or just technology
in general, which maybe once you get, you know, you get to get to a point, you think, I, I'm ready
to learn more. You think Linux Academy, and we've been out here getting people excited about Linux
and open source for 13 years. So we're pretty, we're pretty used to doing that mission. So yeah,
I, when we, when we sat down and talked it, you know, you know, it's funny is that originally,
it originally started as what are some ways we could just work together more, you know,
because we're both kind of doing the same thing. The funny thing about most professions
is from the outside, you think you have an idea of what it takes to do the work.
But then when you go into an industry or you go into a profession, you realize there's so
much more to it than what people see publicly, which were what people could even, you know,
assume publicly, and you just don't know until you're doing it. And that is, that is maybe the
most true for the content industry, the amount of work. I mean, you hear about, you hear about,
you know, famous people who are strung out on drugs and pushing themselves to the limit or
alcoholics. It takes an unbelievable amount out of you. And, you know, I would say 90% of my job
is no, that's, that's, that's an under 98% of my job is off microphone. The easiest thing I do
is record these shows. That is the easiest aspect of my job. And it's really hard to even understand
what could he be spending all his time on? What could he be doing? But once you get into the
industry and you're running a business, you realize there's so much more to it.
So now I'm making this transition to where I have a marketing department that I can contact now.
And there is a development department that I can contact. And there are people on staff who are
super knowledgeable about AWS and Azure and Linux security. Some of them have come from Amazon and
other areas of the industry. Like they are really experts on this stuff. So it's like, all of a
sudden, I can't even really wrap my head around it. I've gone from scrappy little, like cut every
edge, every corner we can to save money, work 60 hours a week to now I have like an actual full-time
small team that works for me. And I have a bunch of other resources in a much larger organization
that, you know, working with a PMO, I can task and get things out of. Like we're talking about
a kickoff meeting next week to just update our art because our art is old. The Koda Radio artwork
has not changed in six years or whatever, five years. How long we've been doing this? It's just
been the same. We started in 2012. And it's just simply because of budget reasons, right? It's just
a cost money to hire people to refresh the art. And really it's lower resolution than it should
be for high DPI displays and all that stuff. Like it's just an area that was not even under
consideration. And now next week, I'm going to be meeting with an art team to start kicking around
ideas and just give things a refresh. It's this massive head change for me. And there's a lot to
do as a VP that I didn't really have a full picture of because how could I, until I got into
that position. And now I'm involved in a lot of meetings. You know, I'm a stakeholder now.
Oh no.
Yeah, I'm a stakeholder. And so it's like every day there's usually a meeting I'm involved in.
So there's been a lot of new work too, that I'm picking up while I'm recovering. But since I'm
not doing as many shows while I'm recovering, I've had more time to do the VP stuff. It's
been, it's a type of transition that I'm still processing really, you know, like I'm still fully
adjusting to it.
Right. So you're, you're adjusting to now being the grand Viceroy of community.
Right. Yeah.
It seems like the perfect marriage. How did you trick Anthony into doing this?
Well, so let's, I think we should explore the why a little bit because, you know, we've, and yeah,
like I was saying, it did start as just like, maybe we could do, you know, like a collaboration
on a show or something. And then the conversation over Texas Linux Fest just sort of, just sort of
expanded from there. And at one point it's like, well, well, maybe we should just buy Jupiter
Broadcasting. Cause you know, if we're going to be doing two or so, you know, and they also at the
same time want to launch several shows that they've, you know, they've bought studio space
for, they've created studio space for, they've recorded test episodes, but they can't really,
there's a lot involved to it, to making shows, to making them weekly, to publishing them on the
different platforms. Like there's just, we just, you know, we essentially have a ton of industry
knowledge in this area. And so we would, we would just be providing a lot of, at first it was going
to be providing a lot of consulting, but then it, then the conversation expanded from there. But
going back to the why. So, you know, I was really at a point where, just very frankly, the last
three years, I've, I've been living off of fumes. Just, I'm not complaining really, because this is
my choice. I enjoy the work and I would rather be broke and do something else. I'm not complaining
to be broke and do something I enjoy than make a ton of money and hate the work that I've, because
I've done that before. I did that for a long time and I know that doesn't work for me. So I'm, I
preface this with, I'm not complaining and I'm thankful that I could do it at all. But you know,
I don't even have, I don't have running water at home because it costs $320 to turn on running
water. And I couldn't afford that. And so I've been living for over, you know, a year or two now
with, without running water. And I, I have this big bladder that holds 30 gallons at a time,
and I fill that with water. And then I have a pump and I transfer that into the tank in my RV.
And then my RV has a pump and that runs the toilets and the sinks, but it's not sanitary.
We can't drink that water. You know, we brush our teeth with it, but probably even that's pushing
it. Like that was my reality. And the only way I could see to improve it was to bring on more
sponsors or replace the sponsors with higher paying sponsors. But I wasn't really, I'm not,
I wasn't inclined to do that because it's about, it's, it's, it's a sales process and it can take
up to six months or more to close a sale. And I would have four or five of them I would have to
do that with. And I also really, you know, I, I worked hard to hand choose those sponsors and
work with them. And I was a customer of each one of those sponsors and I had a, I had a history
with them and I wasn't really keen on replacing them, but I couldn't launch more shows to feature
new sponsors because there was no revenue to do that. Plus switching to higher paying sponsors
is just locking in a more rigid production schedule that can't be missed. And it just raises
the stakes that I'm there for every episode, that I'm healthy, that, you know, I never take a break.
Like it just raises the stakes on all of those. So that didn't feel sustainable. Plus higher paying
sponsors are now, because the podcast industry has grown so much, are looking for a minimum
of 50,000 downloads. And if you want something that's going to actually make a difference in
your life, they're looking for 75,000 downloads. Now our shows will reach that monthly. Like,
you know, I think this month as an example, Linux action news will be downloaded by 130,000 unique
people in one month. That's a, that's a fantastic number that I'm very proud of.
They want 50 to 70,000 per episode per week. Right. Not just the average overall. Right.
And I don't believe when you look at the Linux and open source and free software market,
and then the audience in which in that would listen to podcasts and then the audience in which
that would choose to listen to our podcasts. I don't believe once you niche down into that
vertical that much, that you can have 75,000 downloads per week per episode. You can have a
couple of lucky episodes, but unless you're going hard on the clickbait emotion, basically YouTube
crap, you're not going to get there in a podcast. Podcasts don't get shared the way blogs and YouTube
videos do. It's much more organic, slow discovery. People don't link other people to a point in a
podcast. They'll link people to a YouTube video or a text article. And so discovery and growth
has been a slow process for the last 13 years. And I'm very proud of where we've gotten because
it's, you know, these are magazine numbers. These are larger than magazine distribution
numbers. Like they're larger than local small to medium market radio station numbers. Like,
I'm proud of these numbers, but they're not 75,000 per week. In fact, most of them that are that
large are associated with larger organizations or celebrities. And so it was going to be an uphill
battle. Plus there are a lot of Linux podcasts now that I would be, essentially we're all competing
for the same sponsor dollar. And then there's just the, there just be that we would just be
making a slight improvement on our revenue and our quality of life while being even more stuck to a
rigid production schedule. And that just didn't seem-
It sounds like this gives you- Go ahead.
Gives you a lot of freedom. No, it sounds like, so our new Linux Academy overlords all bow to
the penguin. It's giving you just a tremendous amount of freedom and runway.
Yeah. And it's a matter of being able to work with a larger group of people who understand how
much work content creation is because they're content creators too. And that, I don't think
I would have found anywhere else. Like if you look at, say like you look at our other sponsors,
like Digital Ocean, or their area is servers, right? But Linux Academy's area is content
creation and they have a house full of staff whose entire purpose is content creation.
Anthony himself was one of the original content creators for Linux Academy back in 2014. So he
himself is intimately familiar with the content creation process and how much damn work it is.
So that insight is, I just, it's almost invaluable because it's the difference between them
understanding why sometimes it takes a while to produce a show and them packing on tons of
expectations and all of this. So that was, when I started considering that aspect of the
relationship, that sort of seemed like a, well, this is the shot I have. I could probably keep
going doing it the way we were, but I'm really, I just, I'm exhausted by being so poor. I couldn't
get my truck fixed. I couldn't replace my tires. I couldn't fix up the RV. It's exhausting being
so broke all the time. And I know people have been worse off for me, but there was literally
weeks where I'm like, I'm like, well, I can no longer afford to get gas anymore. I don't know
how I'm going to make, my truck gets, did, I've replaced it now. It was getting 16 miles to the
gallon and I'm like, I think I'm sleeping at the studio tonight so that way I can be there to do
shows the next day. That's just, it just is exhausting. And so to be able to go into an
organization who is just growing like crazy and has the runway to do things like finance trips
to events or put gas in the RV, which can be thousands of dollars when I take it to an event
or fly and pay for my hotel stay, like it opens up my possibilities of what I can do
to create future content tenfold. Because now I'm working with a company that has an expense process
that has hired me with the intention of being able to travel and go to community events
and meet up with people and is encouraging me to do so. It no longer becomes a how are we going to
even be able to afford to do this? Are we going to make six months of payments on a credit card
after I returned from a trip? It's, this is part of my process now. And the other thing that's meant
is being able to bring Joe and Wes on full time. The timing of that was sort of miraculous because
the week that Wes started, so Wes started full time on a Wednesday and he and I flew down to
Texas because new employees that go down to Linux Academy HQ and they go through an onboarding
process. And so I was down there to button up the final details on the merger announcement
and Wes was down there to do onboarding. So I'm in Texas when my appendix ruptures and he flies home
because at that point I'm like, I'm just not feeling well, I'm going to go sleep. And so I just
started sleeping a lot. And so I booked Wes a flight home and he flew home and he started full
time that Monday that I went in and I went to the hospital Sunday. And so Joe and Wes were able to
keep the shows going. Angela was able to provide historical context and direction in areas where
they needed help. And it was, we had that, we had a full like team that was able to just step up and
keep the shows. So we didn't miss any shows while I was gone, while I was in the hospital.
I was gone while I was in the hospital for a week and then recovering now for several weeks. We
haven't missed a single show, you know, unless some other circumstances have come up and that
we nailed that by one day. Like that's how, like that, that kind of, if we had missed that by a
week, then it would have all been on me. There would have been nobody here bringing sponsor
revenue in. There would have been no shows going out. The network just would have gone silent for
a couple of weeks possibly. And so it's just, it's totally changing my game. It's totally changing
my game. And now the other thing is it means is that Wes and Joe can commit themselves full time
to this. So that means Wes has been available on a Sunday. He's been available on a Thursday midday.
You know, we don't have to worry about his day job anymore. And so it's made it way more possible
to do all of this stuff. And not to mention, I got health care two weeks before I ended up in the ER.
Oh, you lucky duck. I mean, you're unlucky that you went to the ER, but the health care is...
And I was, you know, we'd talked about on the show, you know, you and I had both had to go this
year health care free because of the cost and I just couldn't afford it. And I thought, well,
I'm healthy. You know, I haven't gone to the doctor in seven, eight years. I got nothing wrong with me.
I'll be fine for one more year is what I thought. And I didn't even make it through the year.
You didn't make it. You didn't make it.
I didn't. And I, you know, I'm still going to be paying out the nose for the stuff that's just out
of just the cost of stuff out of network is freaking me out. It's going to be possibly
tens of thousands of dollars. And at least you have something. I mean, yeah, I would be I would
I would have been I would have been completely destroyed financially. So, you know, I've had
a few weeks to reflect on this. And it just seems like what I was doing before was pure insanity.
I mean, the reason why I walked around and what I'm currently doing. Yeah. I mean, the reason I
walked around for three weeks with appendicitis and and then ruptured my appendix. I mean,
I pushed through one of the most miserable. I was so sick. I was feverish. I was I was exhausted.
And I pushed through it for three weeks because that's how the old business was designed is I
had to be there to keep to keep doing the shows, to keep the sponsor revenue coming in, to keep
stuff going out the door. And plus, I was trying to finish this business deal. It was it was just
totally unsustainable. And I pushed it too far to the point where I got way more sick than I
should have. I if I would have gone in into the hospital the first week, they probably would have
just been able to do an appendectomy and just put a couple little holes in me and got my appendix
out. But instead, I pushed through it for three weeks and I traveled to Texas and I ruptured my
appendix. And in doing so, and apparently I likely spent several days, if not maybe a week with a
ruptured appendix. And the bacteria of that appendix went throughout my body and wrecked my
right hip and those muscles. And it went and the muscles that hold my stomach in place on the
bottom were poisoned and nearly destroyed. And then the areas around where my appendix was has
been severely damaged. It's the doctor described it as just this most horrible, horrible looking
thing. And all of that damage would have been prevented if I had gone to the hospital sooner.
But I was so focused on work and pushing through this because I've had a light when things get
really stressful and things really get going, you know, sometimes my health begins to fail me. And
that's not that's been something that's happened quite a bit over the last three years. And
generally, I managed to push through it after a few days. But this time, it wasn't what that
wasn't what was happening. And just to make it clear, I did go to the ER at one point and they
missed it. So I did, I did try to go in and they just they happened to miss it. They didn't do any
imagery. And so and cleared me to travel to Texas. So I did try it. But that still is like two weeks
into it. It took me two, two and a half weeks to get to that point. And it's just because I didn't
have health insurance at the time. Actually, I did it just at that point. But I wasn't used to
I wasn't used to thinking like I have health insurance. I had the mindset of I have to avoid
going to the doctor and I was just locked into that. So much of what you're saying,
and you know, from our private conversations is completely like one to one with with me.
Yeah, it's but brighter future, right? So all Linux all the time. Yeah, I mean, it is it has it
it it has it's it there's a bit of sadness of losing, you know, like the being a business
owner and being, you know, quote unquote, entrepreneur, whatever. I didn't really ever
consider myself that but being like a self sufficient. I own my own business. I've created
this thing and now it sustains me. But the reality was, is I was sustaining it and it was it was not
sustaining me. Right. And so that's where this this transition, I think, has been really good for me.
I think it will be good for me personally, once I'm through all this medical stuff and all of that.
But it does mean playing a new game now. Like, I think one of the reasons why I'm going to be okay
at this is because I spent seven years working at a bank that was extremely bureaucratic. I've
shared some of the stories on this show before, and very, very political. And so by comparison,
Linux Academy with its like 115 employees, and its remote work culture is a cakewalk. Like,
it's kept me busy every day. And I've spent like I had to spend multiple days like doing expense
reports and stuff like that. Like, I feel like I've had to do a few TPS reports. But at the same
time, compared to the seven years I spent in that bank, this is easy. And I was surprised at how
quickly I could recall those skills. I figured I was, and I think I've said before, I am unemployable
now. Because I'm so used to having unilateral decisions. Like, if I need to subscribe to a
service to do my job, I subscribe to that service. It takes me 10 minutes, and I move on with my day.
But now I got a hem and haw, and I got to seek approval for a certain amount. You know, like,
there's different things that have changed. I don't think it's for the worst, but I wasn't,
I didn't think I was cut out for it. I didn't think I could deal with that crap anymore.
But the reality is, it's been to my surprise, like riding a bike. I'm kind of a natural at it,
I guess. It's sort of horrible to say it. I kind of feel bad saying it. But like,
I'm pretty good at playing the politics game and making sure that the right people are staying
informed and that I'm, you know, I'm making sure I'm checking with the right people and showing a
certain amount of presence in the group discussion. And there's other roles I have as a VP in
management areas where I, you know, have to be actively participating. But it's been
significantly easier, in a way, because I haven't been doing as many shows, and I've been recovering
and taking it slow. So I've been able to just sort of focus on that stuff. But it has been way easier
than I expected to integrate back into a corporate structure. The Linux Academy one is pretty easy
going, you know, it's as far as it's pretty modern in its structure and in its remote work culture.
So it sort of works well for me since I'm up here in Seattle. Well, most of the team is all around
the world. So I'm not like some weirdo who's outside the office, and I'm the only outsider.
It's pretty common for most people to be out. And they have a policy where if you ever want to visit
the office, you fly in, they'll put you up at a hotel, they'll pay for the flight, and you can
stay and work at the office as long as you want. And to that end, even, we're building a studio
there, essentially a JB2, which will have a lot of the same gear. So I can jump on a plane, three
hour flight down to Texas, and I've left myself a go bag there. So I can literally just jump in the
car, go to the airport, I don't have to pack a thing. I hop on the plane, I fly down there,
and I've got a go bag stash down there waiting for me, packed, clean clothes, ready to go with
all my toiletries and everything I like, even a razor. And I can get right to work at a studio
that's down there, and then when I'm ready to go, I jump on a plane, fly back, three hours,
three, four hours, and back in Washington. That's really cool. So it's working so far,
but you know, long term, we'll see. I think long term is, I think it's going to be a matter of
balancing the VP role with balancing the content creation role. But I'm really looking forward to
getting to travel to more events. That's the number one thing when they told me it's going
to be a multi-month recovery, I'm like, no, I've got two events scheduled I want to go to.
In the next two months, I've got two different events I want to go to.
You're not going anywhere. You're grounded.
Yeah. And for me, it's a relief not to do sponsorships. I think we had great sponsors,
and I really appreciate them keeping us going for as long as they did. But I've told everybody about
DigitalOcean and Ting a few times now. And it means with this show, we can just sit here and
chat. We can just have an uninterrupted conversation. And I think that's pretty great.
And I think I'm going to try to find ways to still make it valuable for Linux Academy. So
I'll probably mention, oh, actually, in fact, here's an example of something I'm going to try
to do. They have a Ruby developer position that is open right now. And so I'm going to try and get
that information out from time to time. I'll put a link in the show notes at coder.show slash 326.
They are looking for a full stack node developer, which is a remote position, a Ruby developer,
which is a remote position, and a Ruby on Rails developer, which is a remote position.
It looks like they are looking for- Go ahead.
Are all their positions remote?
No, I was just going to say it looks like they're looking for a senior iOS developer
that might, yeah, that's out of the office. They're looking for a PMO, a scrum master,
which is out of the office, and a technical writer, which would be remote,
and an R&D web developer, which they're looking for someone in New York for that,
interestingly enough. But I'll put a link to this in the show notes if anybody is like a node
developer or a Ruby developer and looking for remote work, they have a position open.
So I'm going to try and probably integrate that kind of stuff. So it's still bringing
some value to Linux Academy, but it's also bringing value to the audience is sort of my plan.
And we'll see how that works because I am hoping that's a good balance that everybody's happy with.
And you know what else it's meant, which is I'm actually really, really excited about because
people have basically asked me on a daily basis since we took it off the air. But it means that
we now have the resources and staff to bring back user error. So we've relaunched the user error
program, which is really kind of one of the audience favorites, I guess, because you get to
hear some of the same hosts that you listen to on the other shows. But, you know, they let their
hair down and take their pants off and sit around and talk about life, the universe, and Linux.
And Linux.
Yeah. So User Error 48, Living the Dream is out. It's error.show.
Very good.
Yeah, you got a chance to listen to it. Error.show. Yep. I like those guys,
Popey and Dan and Joe's on there. And I'll probably be on the next one and I'll tell
the full story because, you know, there's some aspects to it that are just they're not worth
going into on this show. But, oh, man, are they mind benders. Oh, man, there's so many mind benders
in this whole process. So I think I'll come on the next user error and on 49 and share my story.
So something I've noticed is a lot like you mentioned, Dan, a lot of elementary love going on.
Yeah. Yeah, I think I think they are larger than Fedora in user base by about 100,000 users now.
And I think people are noticing that they are a trend line of improvement. Like you can look
at each elementary OS and you can see that they've held a singular vision and it's been
getting more and more refined each time. And they're also very active, like Cassidy and Daniel,
are very active in the community. Like they just were both at the Libre application summit. They
are usually at some other major event every few months. You know, so they're really participating
in the in the overall discussion a lot. And so I think it's sort of like this multifaceted approach
they've taken by continuing to put out good stuff, by being active in the community, and by trying
to change the status quo a little bit and being now pretty clear and communicating fairly well
after some hard lessons learned on communicating that status quo change. I think it's paying
dividends. And also, not to toot my own horn, but they have been much more active in talking about
some of the things behind the scenes on Linux Unplugged. And I think that does something for
these projects. I think when they come on the show and they don't go for the sale, they go for,
this is the challenge that I'm working on. This is the thing we're trying to solve. Like,
Dan came on one time and talked about how they're building this centralized location service for
the desktop for any application needs location awareness that is controllable by the user. That's,
you know, it's by default very secure and you can manage the privacy. And much like on iOS,
you can go into one central spot and deny location for certain applications. They're building
something like that in there. And he talked about why they're doing it and the challenges they've
had and the reason why they decided to go this approach and what they think the good
sides of location and bad sides of location services are. And, you know, he's not on there
pitching it as a new feature. He's just on there talking about the code that he's been struggling
with recently. And I think that resonates with the audience. People appreciate the hard work that
they're putting into this and then you see the results. And yeah, yeah, they just had an AMA on
r slash Linux and there's lots of love in there. Lots of complimentary discussion in there.
Yeah. Yeah, no, I saw that very interesting. What do you think? Have you thought about giving it a go?
Are you sticking with pop OS? So I actually did take a dive into elementary. Oh, really? I was,
I was intrigued by the elementary app store and frankly, Vala, to be honest with you. Yeah, yeah.
Also, it's damn pretty, right? Like, it's it's clean, right? And it's fast. It looks good.
I'm not going to say that it's that it's a snow leopard, but it's definitely like a, you know,
like a slush leopard so far. We could get there. All right. Okay. That was a little elementary OS
slush leopard. Yeah, I'm first of all, I was surprised how small the team is over there.
I mean, it's obviously I see over there. It's an open source project so far. So good. I mean, I,
I am running it in a VM, so there's some weirdness. I don't know. Oh, that's too bad.
It's so smooth on physical hardware. Like, I imagine it is. It is like that. Just the way
even the windows open and move around is really smooth. It's I think it's much nicer than Nome
Shell. Yeah, it definitely looks better. Yeah. Slush leopard. That's so funny. I, I, I will
also just give a little plug. They've just released the new beta. I think last night of me,
I'm checking to see if I have a link of Juno, which is their 1804 base with a bunch of other.
Yeah, yeah, here it is. Yeah, I'll put a link to this in the show notes too. So the new Juno
release is the one that Dan's been talking to us on Unplugged for quite a bit about, and it's
looking really solid. And the thing, the other thing that I like that they do is they don't do
a time-based, they do a open issues based release schedule. So they just, they sit there and they
burn down the open bugs and issues. And then once they get them all cleaned up, that's when they do
a release. And so they get to that point, then they release a beta. And then they get to that
point again, they release beta 2 and then they're going to do an RC, close all down the bugs, and
then they'll do a final release. It's not like we're going to ship it on October 1st. It's,
we ship it when we've cleared up as many of the bugs as we possibly can. Wait,
ship software when it's actually done instead of for an arbitrary date? Chris, this is revolutionary.
You know, it kind of works because my son has been using a two or even maybe almost, I don't know,
three, it's one or two releases old of elementary. He's like on a two or three-year-old install
on his laptop of elementary OS. And you know, he's not like, he's not trashing it, but you know,
kids and computers, like they'll turn them off randomly, you know, and they're like,
he's not super hard on it, but he's not easy on it either. And that flawless,
flawless. In fact, it's been better than the used iMac that one of the other kids has used.
It's, you know, it's just been totally flawless. And he runs Minecraft on it all the time. He hooks
up secondary displays. It's just been, he does a monthly, he runs the monthly updates
and they just built a really good product. I'm sure there's other districts that are
just as good as that, but it's, it really, you know, that to me has been one of the big tests
and it's really held up. I think it's a, I think it's a good workstation development environment.
It's clean. It's out of your way. They've got a good notification system. It gets even better
in Juno. I like their terminal a lot. And if you, if you're mostly just working in a text editor
and in a shell, I really would strongly consider people take a look at it. And I,
I don't like it when people say it's a macOS ripoff. I think that's really unfair. I think they're just
going for a good design aesthetic. And I think they now have a more consistent look than macOS
does. So I think they've surpassed what, you know, people originally accused them of. And it's,
it's worth a go. And it's, again, it's based on Ubuntu. So pretty much you can get any software
installed on it that you could install on Ubuntu. You can app yourself to glory. Right. So that's
nice. I've, I have a, I've, I went into a, I did a review in a Linux unplugged 267, but just as a
quick addendum, I now am the proud owner of a ThinkPad T480. Very nice. How is it? Exceeds my
expectations by a fair margin. It is, it is really nice. So it's got, it's a 14 inch screen. I went
for 1080p instead of 4k, because it's just a little bit easier still with Linux. I put KDE
Neon 1804 on there and it's got gigabit ethernet. It's got USB-C Thunderbolt 3. It has audio in and
out. It has an SD card reader. It has USB-A. It's 3.6 or 3.9 pounds. And then one of the things that
I fricking love about it is it's, it's about a 10 hour battery life under Linux with this thing.
It is an all, all night battery life is how I use it. I leave it plugged in all day at work.
And then I go, I go home, I don't even bring a power adapter with me because I have 10 hours.
And I, if I need my laptop for 10 hours at work in the evening, I'm doing something wrong. So I,
uh, I, I just have been thrilled. I've also used like my old Mac book power, a USB-C power adapter
with it works great. And I'm able to run our, you know, our VoIP software that we use to connect
between hosts. I'm able to run that and it doesn't kick up my fans, which was really the thing I was
going for. I got an i7 in this thing. And it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's,
it's, it's, it's a thing that runs at 1.9 gigahertz, but can, can turbo up to 4.2 gigahertz, four core,
32 gigs of Ram. So I was hoping it could run a Chrome app without kicking the fans up and it has
indeed successfully done that. Plasma is just so great. I've really gotten down to customizing it
super quick. I am now at peak plasma efficiency. I've got, I'm using window rules to make sure
And my calendar and my email applications always open up on the right desktops and with
the right size and proportions every single time.
My Chrome browser, which I've switched back to from Firefox, is now, it always opens up
on desk one in the proportions so that I can still see my CPU usage and all of that kind
of stuff perfectly.
And it's just, you combine that with the built-in K-Runner, which is like a launcher that you
might get from macOS like Alfred or Quicksilver or use Spotlight, they've got something even
better built into Plasma.
It's even faster and you can run commands.
It's just the greatest environment for me.
I'm really happy with it.
The fans don't kick up unless I'm really pushing the machine.
10-hour battery life is just more than I could have hoped for under Linux.
And it's got a terabyte MV and E drive in it, so the disk is super fast too.
I think it's one of the best computers I've ever used.
I don't know if I, I'm very, very happy that I got it.
It was my Linux Academy work machine, so Linux Academy actually bought it.
If I was buying a machine for home, like I want to use on the couch and just kind of
fart around, I may have gone with a Galago Pro or an XPS 13 after your positive review
of the Galago, because I could then still get Ethernet in that really rare circumstance
I might need it.
Or the XPS 13 so I could just go the USB-C lifestyle and that gorgeous Infinity display.
But for work, I need legacy ports because all of my current audio gear uses, quote,
legacy ports.
So I have to have USB-A. Otherwise, I'm in Dongletown up the wazoo, and I have to have
Ethernet because it makes VoIP connections and video connections more stable, and it
also makes it simpler to transfer large files.
These are must-have items, and I wanted excellent Linux compatibility with a great keyboard
because I was really just done with the MacBook keyboard.
And I got it all.
And I think the ThinkPad T480, not the S, but the T480 is just, it's a blowaway.
It's a blowaway machine.
Customer sat is high.
Very high.
And I...
Customer sat, Tim?
Yeah.
And I recommend, if people are considering it, one of the things it does that I love,
it's got two batteries.
It's got a built-in three-cell inside the laptop, and then I've got a six-cell external.
And because you've got two batteries, you can hot swap that external battery, and you
can run like for an hour or two off of the internal three-cell.
Oh, very cool.
Yeah.
It's just, I think the internal three-cell might have more wattage than your old Galego
battery did.
I don't know about your current Galego.
So it's, you know, three or so hour battery, and you can then, you click on an external
one, and you get...
If you've got a couple of those batteries, you could just go forever, basically, because
I get 10 hours out of one of them.
Anyways, I would say that I have, I think, solved my long hardware conundrum that I have
struggled with, as documented in this show, for a long time.
I feel like I've reached a conclusion.
There's still some software stuff I have to pull off to do all fancy on-the-road recording,
but I got time to figure that out because I'm not going anywhere for a while.
And it feels great.
It's just wonderful.
It's wonderful to be super happy with a setup, and to feel like I didn't have to compromise
on the hardware.
You know, I could have lived with 16 gigs of RAM, but 32 gigs of RAM gives me a lot
more headroom.
And I didn't get it with dedicated graphics, but I planned down the road to get an eGPU,
and I'll just invest in that.
So I think Thunderbolt 3, and going 1080p, will be the biggest long-term game changers
for me, because I can go with higher resolution monitors externally if I want, I can hook
up Thunderbolt docs if I want, I can hook up eGPUs.
So it seems like, you match that with 32 gigs of RAM, and an i7 that has four cores that
can turbo up to 4.2 gigahertz, I think it's got a lot of runway.
So I can really invest in getting this thing set up right.
Pumped about it.
Sounds awesome.
Yeah, if you pop an eGPU, like it's not in there next to it.
How's your Mac?
I can see being a pretty...
Your Macbook holding up?
Yeah.
What?
No?
Problems?
Yeah, so this is a replacement Macbook, and the keyboard does not function.
So this is a newer replacement machine, and you're already using a new keyboard?
Yeah, it was from I think a month ago I took the other one in, because it was having issues.
And they kindly just gave me basically the same computer, right?
They just swapped it out.
Although I did not know that when they do that, I guess I should have known, it's always
a refurb usually.
Yes.
And I can tell you why this computer was given back to the Genius Bar.
Keyboard.
The irony is I'm traveling again next week, and I have an Apple thing I need to do.
It's an iOS thing.
So I literally have to stand at the Genius Bar probably most of the day tomorrow.
That is so frustrating.
Yeah.
Well, and this is something I learned the hard way.
So I have the 15-inch 2017, but the high-end one.
Not all Apple stores keep many of them in stock, and they will not replace it with a
different computer, nor, and this is the best, nor will they replace it with a 2018.
Yes.
Yeah.
And it gets even more complicated if you do a bunch of fancy build-to-order options online,
you know?
Like if you upgrade a bunch of stuff.
Yeah.
Well, that's why I just did the high everything, well, not everything, but the standard.
You just did the default high, but even that, they don't stock.
Yeah.
They don't stock.
And because it's the year-old model, they don't stock it at all.
So I'm going to be in this weird situation of I have to get this crap done.
And then when I say done, like deploy it onto the App Store.
This is the only Mac I have, and it doesn't work.
The VNC, baby.
No, I joke, but because that's-
Honestly, if I was hoping they were going to release new Mac minis, and I was just going
to do a headless one and absolutely just, you know what, SSH in, write some build scripts
and do it.
Just keep my Galaga would be my road machine.
Yeah.
Really, they should be.
You should do all this on an iPad Pro by now, and it's kind of ridiculous at this point.
Well, the iPad Pros are faster than most of the Macs they sell.
I know.
Exactly.
It really is.
Yeah.
I know what the answer to this problem is because they have that very liberal 30-day
return policy.
It's I buy another one.
Oh.
Take it on the trip.
Yeah.
Use it for the week I'm on the trip and just return it.
Would you, though, or do you think... I could see myself being like, I like this machine.
I'm taking it back.
You know what I mean?
I don't know if I would take it back.
No.
You know what?
I have to say, I've had so... People email the show, and you see it.
They tweet me just laughing about how much of a hard time I've had with these laptops.
I think they're just badly made.
Yeah.
That keyboard was just a bad idea from the beginning, really.
This is the second replacement I will have to do.
The Hulk says that maybe you should look into hackintoshing the Galago.
The Galago's not beefy enough, I think.
Well, maybe.
Maybe.
I've hackintoshed some... Actually, laptops are the hardest thing to hackintosh, but...
Yeah.
And that there's some weird stuff.
Well, man, that really does stink.
That really is no good.
It's one of those situations, too, where you have this dependency on a particular type
of work tool, and it's, of course, one of the most expensive tools that you have.
So that's what makes it extra frustrating.
And you're right, they don't...
It actually... I did the math.
It literally is.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
It's... There is a temptation to just buy a 2018, because supposedly...
That new keyboard with that new film on there.
The film fixes all these problems, but...
Yeah, I could see it.
I mean, I could see that.
That does seem to be what their patent implies, too.
Yeah, but that would be throwing away $3,000, which is basically the original.
Yeah.
Yeah, they almost need to have an upgrade program like they have for the cell phones,
you know?
Or they could build better keyboards, but let's move on.
Yeah, that's true.
That could happen.
Yeah.
So, one last thing before we call it.
Sure, sure.
Real quick, what are your thoughts on Linus' announcement regarding...
Oh, man.
Yeah.
Five minutes or less, though.
So, between us.
Wow.
You know, this story has dominated the bulk of my brain space all week, so it has been,
when the news dropped, I was floored.
I've never seen Linus do anything like this before.
Plus, he always seemed very, very convinced in his particular style of management.
It seemed like it was sort of his personal mantra, and that he was never going to change.
But having now followed this story very, very closely, probably to an obsessive degree,
I would say, and you can piece together various parts of the story, and we actually have a
timeline that's very fascinating.
So it would appear that Linus was contacted by the New Yorker and asked some questions
last week about abusive behavior and behavior that prevents women from participating in
Linux kernel development.
At this point, last week, Linus knew that they were going to publish this article, and
I'm sure he was genuinely embarrassed by that and probably has a sincere desire to change
now that this has become very public and that he's been in the wrong.
He has been verbally aggressive to an extreme degree.
Greg KH has called him childish for it.
He says that Linus has the language of some children, but they've generally been fairly
good-natured about it.
So it would appear that then after being contacted by the New Yorker, Linus talked to various
top-level kernel developers, got Greg KH to agree to take over and finish up the 4.19
development cycle so Linus could take some time off and maybe return some point, maybe
4.20, maybe after.
Then a code of conduct was quickly chosen, and it was committed.
It was agreed to by a very small handful of developers.
I think it was signed off by six or four developers.
If you don't include Linus and Greg, I think three other developers, where their previous
code of conflict was signed off by 30 or 40 developers, a much larger group.
Linus then makes his public announcement, and then everybody starts reacting.
It seems that this has really been something that's been building and been going to catch
up with Linus for a very, very long time.
Some of the people involved have thrown down with Linus before, SageSharp and others,
years ago on the Linux kernel mailing list.
SageSharp was then known as SarahSharp, and she was a contributor to the USB 3.0 stack,
so she was an active participant in the development process, and got into a heated argument with
Linus about his behavior.
It's really been on everyone's radar pretty much since that SarahSharp moment, and this
has all been building.
All it appears, individuals went to the New Yorker to expose Linus for his abusive behavior,
and the New Yorker has a very strict policy of contacting any subject that is part of
an article they're writing.
In fact, if I remember correctly, the New Yorker has a policy that they will at a minimum
try to contact you three times to the best of their ability to get statements from you.
That is what tipped off Linus that this was coming.
The New Yorker article has been published, but it was slightly modified to also reflect
his standing down, so sort of a hodgepodge article.
When you read it, it starts with, this is what's happened, and then it takes this massive
turn to calling Linus a sexist abuser, which was going to be the original article.
I think the question has become, will Linus even return, and will there be a fork of the
kernel that doesn't have this code of conduct?
The code of conduct is a separate issue, and I don't really feel like getting into it.
I feel like it's up to the project individuals.
If the individuals involved with the project that work on it day to day felt like they
needed a code of conduct, then they're probably in the best position to make that determination,
not some yokel that's just watching from the outside.
I think maybe my only criticism might be the specific code of conduct they chose, because
it's very politically charged, especially the individuals around it are sort of lightning
rods for social justice issues, and it is inherently a very politically charged document
that is sort of infamous for these political issues.
They picked a very well-known code of conduct, but they also picked one that comes with quite
a bit of controversy around it.
It has a lot of baggage.
The bigger picture here is Linus's apology.
I read his apology on Linux Unplugged 267, and he seemed legitimately, genuinely sorry,
and that he'd really realized he had been...
He writes in there that he thought in the effort for the best patch that this was excusable,
and now he says he realizes that wasn't true, and he sincerely apologizes.
That could have ripple effects throughout open source.
I think a lot of projects have taken the meritocracy inspiration from all great Linus, and have
sort of used that as their justification to maybe be a little abusive, which is a charged
word, but my thinking about this with Linus's behavior was, imagine if I treated West Joe
or Angela or you that way when there was a mistake made in the show.
Because these are live productions, these go out to thousands of people, it's how we
make our living.
If you make a mistake, it's a big deal.
How the eff could you do something like this?
You're effing destroying us.
It would create a toxic work environment here.
Everybody would hate me.
I would be feared, not liked.
It would be an awful work environment if every time you made a mistake, I flew off the handle
and started cussing you out.
And I know that does happen in private industry.
We all know some famous CEOs that are well known for doing it, but it doesn't make it
okay.
It makes it awful for everybody else that has to get that shit rained on them.
And so when I put myself in Linus's position, and imagine myself behaving that way, it felt
wrong.
It felt like that was-
Too much.
Abusive.
It is abusive, I guess.
It's verbally abusive.
It's just not a good way to run a business either.
So I respect and appreciate that he seems to have had a self-reflective moment and is
owning it, saying it's his fault, and then apologizing for it.
And taking time away to really reflect on it and not be focused on work, but be focused
on himself.
He even implies that he may be getting professional help.
I think that's respectable, and I think that is an applaudable move.
And he is an important contributor to technology, and I think if somebody in his position can
do this, I think it sets a good example for people in other open source projects, and
maybe even in corporations.
So I think him acknowledging this and stepping aside as long as he comes back is a good thing.
If he doesn't come back, I think it would be a loss.
See, that's the part that wasn't clear to me.
I actually kind of agree with- I do agree with the criticism on Linus.
I always felt that, especially as I've gotten more and more involved in going to Linux events
and stuff, there's just like a- People just aren't nice, I don't even know what to say.
There's a few personalities that yeah, kind of like, you know how Apple guys fake, act
like Steve Jobs, kind of guys who just act like Linus and like yell at everybody, right?
Oh, you're a moron if you don't know how to do this or whatever.
But for him to be permanently like out seems- I don't know, I don't- I guess, it just seems
like too much.
The other thing, and this is what I would be more concerned with, I hope there's not
serious talk about a fork.
I think people are waiting to see what happens.
Yeah, that would be awful.
And how could you- That would be a shit show.
There would probably be mini forks if that happens.
Right.
Maybe each major distro forks.
Well, and also we have a lot of these big commercial players in the community now, I'm
thinking of you, Microsoft.
It seems like the community shooting itself in the foot.
Like I've seen some of the, I'm sure you have too, the forums and the-
Oh man.
Yeah.
Woo.
It's worse than the systemdy stuff.
Not as bad as the unity stuff though.
I think it's not likely because the way these code of conducts are applied is literally
a patch is applied to the kernel source tree.
And you could apply future patches that could be a revision too that maybe use more clarifying
language and outline perhaps more roles of the enforcers.
So the enforcers is the technical advisory board, which I think is 10 people at the Linux
foundation.
And there's really nothing outlined there and what their clear responsibilities are.
It's just, if you have an issue, email them.
It's very vague and it's very vague on what their reach and extent is.
So I think they could do a patch that is a rev two that maybe changes some of this or
reclarify some of the language.
It's based on the covenant code of conduct.
It doesn't have to be the exact copy of it.
So yeah, I would hope that that is the route this goes is that they just refine the document
to be better reflective and better, more specific and then avoid a fork.
It's just a patch, I don't know.
I hope so.
Just some of the rhetoric around it's getting a little already just a little heated, but
we'll see.
I think it was time.
I think we're seeing this a lot of open source communities too.
That's it.
I've worked in environments where inside a company where there's been somebody who is
just, they're a cursor, they're a yeller and it's their way of managing a lot of stuff
coming in.
You cut down the people that don't do right and I think there's people, I think we all
know this is a common thing that does happen, but it feels like Linux being 27 years old
is at a point where it can sustain another transition.
We can afford to be a little more inclusive because it's not a make or break diehard scrappy
little project that's going up against NetWare and Unix and Microsoft Windows NT.
It has won.
It's taken over the industry and so, and Linus himself says this in his post, there are other
what he calls pain points where they've had to make transitions and switch to Git from
Bitbucket or move around the way the patches work and who's in charge of it.
There's been other pain points that were massive, massive transitions they've had to make.
They just weren't as political as this one.
So that's why I do hope he makes it back because he's been there for all those other transitions
and he has weathered those storms and I think properly stewarded the kernel to the next
phase.
And so he has proven that he has a track record of being able to do that.
He's proven he has a track record of building one of the world's best kernels ever and the
market has rewarded him and Linux for it.
There's also people now that are attacking the foundation trying to call for people to
harass the sponsors to get someone thrown off the technical advisory board.
And there is also people that are posting the salaries of Linus and Greg and everybody
else and making a big stink about it.
Everybody's freaked out and blown away that Linus in 2016 or something like that made
$1.6 million or $1.3 million as a salary.
But to me, relatively yes, that's a lot of money but to the industry, for anybody high
up in the industry, it's not.
You know, as an example, in 2016, Johnny Ive just got a $30 million bonus, or it might
have even been $60 million.
Just a bonus.
It was just ridiculous.
Yeah.
And he's got hundreds of millions in stock options.
And my point is Tim Cook's doing all right too.
The Linux foundation and this entire industry that runs Linux would not exist without Linus.
So the fact that the foundation and all those fat cats at the foundation that are sitting
around doing management stuff wouldn't have a payroll.
They would have to go out and do other jobs if it wasn't for Linus.
So the fact that the top guy who created this thing is making 1.6 mil is not a great deal.
That's not relatively as much money as it could be.
In 2000, Steve Jobs offered him a job to come work for Apple.
He'd probably be way, way richer if he had taken Steve Jobs' job offer in 2000.
So yeah, 1.6 is a lot, but I don't think it's worth the witch hunt that's brewing over it
on Twitter right now.
I agree.
Well, Mr. Dominic, anything else you feel like getting off your chest before we get
out of here?
Or are you ready to go stand in line at that Apple store?
I'm ready to go stand in line at the Genius Bar.
Well, in the meantime, people should go check out the new project, griffinradar.com.
Is that what it was?
That's right.
And anything else you want to plug?
At Domenico on Twitter and Linux Academy.
There you go.
Linux Academy has a $2.99 sale going on, and I mention this because they extended it.
That's less than $30 a month, and it locks that price in forever, as long as you remember,
for all their new content and everything.
It's going on right now.
I think it ends on the 24th.
It's a pretty good deal, so it's worth checking out.
I'm at Chris LAS.
The network is at Jupiter Signal.
Go follow him at Domenico.
And a big thank you to Mr. Payne, Mr. Wes Payne, for filling in while I was out.
Much appreciated.
Everybody loves Wes.
Thank you.
Maybe we'll read some of those love letters next week.
Oh, yeah.
Thanks, everybody.